# Agenda for the 11 August 2025 17:00 ADT CG Meeting

## Dial in details

*Zoom*: https://zoom.us/j/95320945677?pwd=aMBNHYCSujHC1MW6z1V1CjbMfKwE27.1

*When*: Every second Monday from 17:00 to 18:00(Eastern Australia Time - Sydney)

*Location*: Zoom: https://zoom.us/j/95320945677?pwd=aMBNHYCSujHC1MW6z1V1CjbMfKwE27.1

*Chair*: DP

*Minutes*: DH

## Attendees

- Dima Postnikov
- Dave Hyland
- Sushmita Ruj
- Linden Dawson
- Gareth Narinesingh
- Jacob Oberman
- Miki Brotzler
- Victoria Richarson
- Olaf Grewe
- Jan Vereecken
- Derek Munneke
- Brad Carr

## Agenda

1. **The meeting will be recorded for note taking purposes only.**

2. **Antitrust Reminder**: Note latest Refresh of the rules https://openid.net/policies/ 
DIMA to provide an overview of the Note Well
https://openid.net/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/OIDF_Groups-Activities-Events-Note-Well_Final_2025-06-12.pdf  

2. **ADT CG Charter**

3. **Administration** 
- **Participation Agreements**: Reminder to sign the participation agreement if you wish to have your comments and contributions recorded.
- **Access to Slack**: Reminder to join the Slack channel for ongoing discussions and updates. You will need to sign the participation agreement to contribute IPR to the Slack channel.
- **Access to the Mailing List**: See the signup link in the Readme.md file.

4. **Introductions** - new attendees. 

- Sushmita Ruj. UNSW. 


5. **General Discussion**
   
6. **Local Events**: [see below](#Local-Events)

7. **Previous Actions**: [see below](#Actions)

8. **Subgroup Updates**: [see below](#Subgroups)

9. **AOB**

Discussion forming a reponse on productivity commission 
https://www.pc.gov.au/inquiries/current/data-digital/interim

## Local Events

Please insert chronologically ordered _(hopefully)_

### Event Name, Location, Date

| Title    | Event Name |
|----------|---| 
| Location | Someplace, STATE |
| Date     | 2025-01-01 |
| Link     | https://example.net |

This is a template entry. Copy and paste for own events. Please insert chronologically.


### Digital Identity New Zealand, Te Papa Tongarewa / Wellington, 12 August

{%preview https://digitalidentity.nz/event/digital-trust-hui-taumata-2025/ %}


### Ping YOUniverse, Sydney & Melbourne, 19 & 21 August 2025

{%preview https://www.pingidentity.com/en/events/youniverse.html %}

- [19 August 2025 - Darling Harbour, Sydney](https://pingevents.pingidentity.com/event/2c3d1137-6f88-470a-847d-f0011e79e382/overview)
- [21 August 2025 - 408 Flinders Lane, Melbourne](https://pingevents.pingidentity.com/event/1ee2dc95-0073-4357-aeff-609062898224/overview)


### Digital Financial Services Summit NSW 2025, Sydney, 4 September

Thursday - September 4, 2025.
 
The Fullerton Hotel Sydney

{%preview https://forefrontevents.co/event/digital-financial-services-summit-nsw-2025/ %}

### IDPro September, Brisbane, 9 September

IBM Offices - Queen Street, Brisbane. 

{%preview https://www.trybooking.com/DDBPH %}

### Digital Identity Week, Sydney, 9-10 September

9-10 September, 2025

Swiss√¥tel Sydney

{%preview https://www.cshub.com/events-digitalidentityandsecurity %}

### Identity Access Management, Melbourne, 18 September

18 September, 2025

{%preview https://www.clutchevents.co/events/melbourne-identity-authentication-access-management-summit-2025 %}

### ID Match, Sydney, 16-17 September

IVS Forum 2025

16 & 17 September 2025

{%preview https://www.ticketebo.com.au/idmatch/ivs-forum-2025/index/r/10 %}


### Biometrics Intitute Showcase Australia, Canberra & Online, 26 November

{%preview https://www.biometricsinstitute.org/event/showcase-australia-2025/ %}

26 November, 2025.

Hotel Realm, Canberra


### Innovation Day - Identity Through Life, Sydney, ?? September

Deloitte Offices - 50 Bridge St, Sydney

Focus on age assurance, estate planning, delegation and end of life.


## General updates

### OIDF Polls

_none current_


### Discussion

**Summary**
The meeting began with introductions and updates from the Australian Digital Trust community group, including new participant Sushmita and various members sharing their roles in digital identity and access. The group discussed recent and upcoming events in the digital identity space, including workshops, conferences, and research projects, while also reviewing the status of various working groups and initiatives. The conversation ended with discussions about responding to a draft report from the Productivity Commission, including plans for creating a Slack channel for collaboration and preparing a formal response before the next AET meeting.

#### Detailed Discussion
**Australian Digital Trust Community Updates**
The meeting focused on updates and introductions for the Australian Digital Trust community group. Dima welcomed everyone and highlighted the importance of respecting each other and signing the participation agreement. Sushmita, a new participant, introduced herself as an associate professor at UNSW, focusing on cryptography and digital identity research. The group then went through brief introductions, with members sharing their roles and affiliations in the digital identity and access space.

**Digital Credentials Workshop Update**
The group discussed recent and upcoming events in the digital identity and credentials space. Sushmita provided an update on a workshop she organized, which brought together government officials, banks, and vendors to discuss digital credentials and their use cases in the Australian context. They are working on a report about the project and plan to share it with the community for feedback. Victoria mentioned an ongoing PhD research project examining ACTIS and its potential impact on innovation, which the group expressed interest in supporting.

**Event Updates and Postponements**
The team discussed upcoming events, including Digital Financial Services Summit, ID Pro meetup, Digital Identity Week, and various identity and access management summits scheduled between August and November. Brad explained that the Innovation Day event was postponed due to pending parliamentary activities in the UK, with publication of a report expected to trigger participation by Ian and Tony. The team agreed to send a one-sentence communication about the Innovation Day postponement to the mailing list, and Linden mentioned she would provide updates about her upcoming presentation at Identity Week in America.

**Trust Framework Comparison Progress**
The Trust Framework Working Group discussed the completion of a full spreadsheet for framework comparisons, following guidance from Nick. Victoria explained that the group needs to determine what criteria to use for meaningful comparisons between frameworks, focusing on governance and technical requirements to support interoperability. Dima mentioned ongoing work with City Hub, a non-profit initiative focused on digital identity ecosystem interoperability, and Victoria offered to share her notes on reviewing the Agadis and New Zealand frameworks. The group agreed to move forward with providing inputs to the global community group and decided not to continue weekly meetings for the Date, Death, and Digital State project.

**Subgroup Leadership and Guide Progress**
The group discussed the status of a subgroup that has been in a holding pattern pending government publication, with Brad noting continued interest despite the delay. Jacob confirmed his interest in potentially leading the subgroup and shared that his partner is investigating the Canadian experience, while Victoria acknowledged Jacob's engagement and potential leadership role. Miki updated the group about an international guide on digital estate preparation, which Dean is working on with a mid-August completion target, and Dima encouraged interested participants to contact Miki or Lyndon for access to the Slack channel where the guide can be found.

**Productivity Commission Data Sharing Response**
The group discussed responding to the Productivity Commission's draft report on data sharing, which doesn't mention digital identity or consent. Olaf suggested forming a temporary subgroup to review the report and provide feedback, emphasizing the importance of digital identity standards in this context. Victoria shared a link to the report and noted that responses are due by September 15th, distinguishing this from the upcoming Economic Reform Roundtable summit.

**Digital Identity Report Response Planning**
The group discussed responding to a draft report due September 15th, with Victoria offering to draft an initial response focusing on digital identity and trust issues, which would be reviewed by Miki and Linden before the next AET meeting in two weeks. The community group agreed to create a Slack channel for discussion and document sharing, with Brad emphasizing that while they should proceed with a response, they should avoid taking controversial advocacy positions that could divide the group. Dima noted that while the community group is not yet an official OIDF chapter, their long-term intent is to establish it as one, and Gareth suggested any formal response would need to go through OIDF governance.

### Notes

 - Signature of the participaation agreement is not required to join the ODIF Slack. This is following a decision by OIDF Board that information that contains IP should not be shared in Slack by default. Therefore, signature of the agreement is not a prerequisite.


## Actions

1. Victoria to draft a response to the Productivity Commission report on data sharing, focusing on the importance of digital identity standards.
2. Linden and Miki to support Victoria in reviewing and providing feedback on the draft response to the Productivity Commission report.
3. Victoria to present the draft response to the Productivity Commission report at the next meeting in two weeks.
4. Olaf to create a Slack channel for discussing the Productivity Commission report response.
5. Dave to publish the Trust Framework Working Group meeting notes.
6. Sushmita to share the presentations from the UNSW digital credentials workshop with the community.
7. Sushmita to share the research report on AGDIS with the community once completed.
8. Brad to send a communication to the mailing list regarding the postponement of the Innovation Day event.
9. Victoria to provide an update on the Digital Identity New Zealand event in a couple of weeks.
10. Jacob to lead the Age Assurance subgroup when it becomes active.

## ADT CG Subgroups

The ADT CG will govern and oversee the activites of the subgroups. 

Subgroups will report back to the CG on activities, progress and broad socialisation/review of any work they undertake. 


## Subgroups


### SIDI Trust Framework Analysis

**Meets**: Every second Monday @ 5 PM

**Slack**: https://oidf.slack.com/archives/C08HWV6BR7X

**Overview**: https://github.com/openid/cg-australian-digital-trust/blob/f5c4682e24c7f28b8663cdb697268003728d7f73/TrustFrameworkAnalysis/Readme.md

**Discussion**:

As per the meeting notes: https://hackmd.io/9rj0nzA8SfaIIWUvFqQ30g

**Actions**:

As per the meeting notes: https://hackmd.io/9rj0nzA8SfaIIWUvFqQ30g

- Dave to obtain the full version of the trust framework analysis tool from Elizabeth. - DONE
- Dave to ensure the group has the correct spreadsheet with all characteristics and values for capturing information. - DONE
- Dave and the group to decide on the appropriate level (use case, sector, or scheme) at which to conduct their analysis.
- Dave to create a layered picture of the different frameworks and implementations being analyzed.
- Victoria to review the full version of the trust framework analysis tool once received.
- The group to consider using Slack for more frequent communication between meetings to develop and refine their work.


### DADE AU 

**Meets**: 

Disbanded in favor of global [OpenID "DADE" group](https://github.com/openid/death-and-the-digital-estate)

**Slack**: 

[OpenID #cg-dade](https://oidf.slack.com/archives/C07KQP3DMR7)

**Overview**: Will align with the global group (next meeting 21 Aug 8am AEST)

**Actions**:

**Discussion** 

- Call for Contributions to [Digital Estate Planning Guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gjM82jsF242ag99-pDaQF00i5YK3Lpwr/edit)


### Age Assurance

**Meets**: TBC.

**Slack**: https://oidf.slack.com/archives/C08HZ95GGKC 

**Overview**: https://github.com/openid/cg-australian-digital-trust/blob/f5c4682e24c7f28b8663cdb697268003728d7f73/InnovationDay-1/Readme.md

**Discussion**: 

**Actions**:

No Actions - This will remain open as an Active Slack channel while the Innovation Days activites are underway. 


## Other Items

**Discussion forming a reponse on [productivity commission](https://www.pc.gov.au/inquiries/current/data-digital/interim)**

{%preview https://www.pc.gov.au/inquiries/current/data-digital/interim %}

Discussion around the consideration of digital identity in the recommendations.


# Next meeting

 Date: 25 August 2025

## Dial in details

*Zoom*: https://zoom.us/j/95320945677?pwd=aMBNHYCSujHC1MW6z1V1CjbMfKwE27.1

*When*: Bi-weekly from 17:00 to 18:00 on Monday (Eastern Australia Time - Sydney)

*Location*: Zoom: https://zoom.us/j/95320945677?pwd=aMBNHYCSujHC1MW6z1V1CjbMfKwE27.1

*Chair*: 

*Minutes*: 

