# Agenda & Minutues for the 20 October 2025 17:00 ADT CG Meeting

## Dial in details

*Zoom*: https://zoom.us/j/95320945677?pwd=aMBNHYCSujHC1MW6z1V1CjbMfKwE27.1

*When*: Every second Monday from 17:00 to 18:00(Eastern Australia Time - Sydney)

*Location*: Zoom: https://zoom.us/j/95320945677?pwd=aMBNHYCSujHC1MW6z1V1CjbMfKwE27.1

*Chair*: VR

*Minutes*: DH

## Attendees
Brad Carr
Dave Hyland
Victoria Richardson
Miki Brotzler
Linden Dawson
Jacob Oberman
Kate Virgona
John Scullen
Jonathan Foyer
Olaf Grewe
Jo Spencer
Gareth Narinesingh


## Agenda

1. **The meeting will be recorded for note taking purposes only.**
1. **Antitrust Reminder**: Note latest Refresh of the rules https://openid.net/policies/ .
    1. [OpenID Foundation, Groups, Activities, & Events, Note Well](https://openid.net/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/OIDF_Groups-Activities-Events-Note-Well_Final_2025-06-12.pdf)
1. **ADT CG Charter**
1. **Administration** 
    - **Participation Agreements**: Reminder to sign the participation agreement if you wish to have your comments and contributions recorded.
    - **Access to Slack**: Reminder to join the Slack channel for ongoing discussions and updates. You will need to sign the participation agreement to contribute IPR to the Slack channel.
    - **Access to the Mailing List**: See the signup link in the Readme.md file.
1. **Introductions** - new attendees. 
1. **General Discussion**
    1. **Previous Actions** (#Previous-Actions)
1. **Local Events**: [see below](#Local-Events)
1. **Previous Actions**: [see below](#Actions)
1. **Subgroup Updates**: [see below](#Subgroups)
1. **AOB**

Discussion forming a reponse on productivity commission 
https://www.pc.gov.au/inquiries/current/data-digital/interim

## Previous Actions




## Local Events

Please insert chronologically ordered:

### Event Name, Location, Date

| Title    | Event Name |
|----------|------------| 
| Location | Someplace, STATE |
| Date     | 2025-01-01 |
| Link     | https://example.net |

This is a template entry. Copy and paste for own events. Please insert chronologically.


### Biometrics Intitute Showcase Australia, Canberra & Online, 26 Nov


| Title    | Biometrics Intitute Showcase Australia |
|----------|------------| 
| Location | Hotel Realm, Canberra ACT & Online |
| Date     | 2025-11-26 |
| Link     | https://www.biometricsinstitute.org/event/showcase-australia-2025/ |

{%preview https://www.biometricsinstitute.org/event/showcase-australia-2025/ %}

### IDPro Meetup, Canberra (venue TBC), 26 Nov (after Showcase above)

| Title    | Event Name |
|----------|------------| 
| Location | TBC, ACT |
| Date     | 2025-11-26 |
| Link     |  |


## General updates

### OIDF Polls



## Meeting Minutes

### Notes

 - Signature of the participation agreement is not required to join the ODIF Slack. This is following a decision by OIDF Board that information that contains IP should not be shared in Slack by default. Therefore, signature of the agreement is not a prerequisite.


VR - 1st week in dec for an innovation day on trust frameworks. One item was coming form gov as they would like to explore commercial framworks with the industry 
LD - would neeed to make sure we address all competition interests
VR - Intent is a discovery coversation and will have a broad participation across industry and other representatives
GN - UK competition was left to private sector. Govt are now entering the market as a monopoly operator. UK not sure where the commercial model will fit in. 
VR - does anyone think its a bad idea? - commercial model or a discussion -> No objections
GN - Mandatory use of ID will require new legislation - will be 3-4 years to legislate. Should not stop private sector for progressing. Private sector in UK should be driving ahead with commerical models. 
VR - There appears to be support for a session befor the end of the year for a broad discussion between private and public sector particaptions on ID commericalisation. 
OG - Provided updates on the Trustframeworks subgroup. Section by section approach seems to be working that will allow us to bring this 
VR - challenge to exercise a use case by the end of the year. 
JO - Dovid Clarke - CISO for Victoria. DH to send an invite to join the ADT CG. Andy K spealking to BD&M has permission to work with the working group on consulting with WG
JO - request all to look at the post in Slack. 
JO - to send DH Dovid Clark details to invite to the CG
LD - Dade - Eve has put out a whitepaper - still open for review. Dean is presenting at authenticate. Link to whitepaper here:  https://openid.net/open-for-comment-the-unfinished-digital-estate/
MB - wanted to talk to some of the death related events. There is a link to the online event. Lifting Lid.
VR - Lifting the Lid is Online - Death Fest is in sydney. 
AOB - OG - Consultation submitted on time thanks to John Scullen and Vic for assitence. Will not be converted into a linked in post. We still have one day to respond to the prepaid consutlatio - this is a good oppty to demonstrate where Digitali ID can be helpful. The link to the response is in slack All contributions welcome. 
VR - Action related to how to address age vefiication coveredy by Jacob and Andy. 
OR - OIDF Hybrid Workshop - DP did pull together the report to the forum that is currently being held. 
VR - one pager to OIDF Hybrid Workshop. Presented the one page slide. 
VR - Changes to to clarify the Trust Framework responses and Flag Truncation. 
LD - Had Olaf approve Lindens presentation to the group. 
LD - Presented on her trip to Washington Identity Week. 


## Actions

  

## ADT CG Subgroups

The ADT CG will govern and oversee the activites of the subgroups. 

Subgroups will report back to the CG on activities, progress and broad socialisation/review of any work they undertake. 


## Subgroups


### SIDI Trust Framework Analysis

**Meets**: Every second Monday @ 5 PM

**Slack**: https://oidf.slack.com/archives/C08HWV6BR7X

**Overview**: https://github.com/openid/cg-australian-digital-trust/blob/f5c4682e24c7f28b8663cdb697268003728d7f73/TrustFrameworkAnalysis/Readme.md

**Discussion**:

As per the meeting notes: https://hackmd.io/9rj0nzA8SfaIIWUvFqQ30g

**Actions**:

As per the meeting notes: https://hackmd.io/9rj0nzA8SfaIIWUvFqQ30g


### DADE AU 

**Meets**: 

Disbanded in favor of global [OpenID "DADE" group](https://github.com/openid/death-and-the-digital-estate)

**Slack**: 

[OpenID #cg-dade](https://oidf.slack.com/archives/C07KQP3DMR7)

**Overview**: Will align with the global group (next meeting 21 Aug 8am AEST)

**Actions**:

**Discussion** 

- Call for Contributions to [Digital Estate Planning Guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gjM82jsF242ag99-pDaQF00i5YK3Lpwr/edit)
- Comments close on October 24 for [discussion paper and planning guide](https://openid.net/open-for-comment-the-unfinished-digital-estate/)


### Age Assurance

**Meets**: TBC.

**Slack**: https://oidf.slack.com/archives/C08HZ95GGKC 

**Overview**: https://github.com/openid/cg-australian-digital-trust/blob/f5c4682e24c7f28b8663cdb697268003728d7f73/InnovationDay-1/Readme.md

**Discussion**: 

**Actions**:

No Actions - This will remain open as an Active Slack channel while the Innovation Days activites are underway. 


## Other Items


# Next meeting

 Date: 3 November 2025

## Dial in details

*Zoom*: https://zoom.us/j/95320945677?pwd=aMBNHYCSujHC1MW6z1V1CjbMfKwE27.1

*When*: Bi-weekly from 17:00 to 18:00 on Monday (Eastern Australia Time - Sydney)

*Location*: Zoom: https://zoom.us/j/95320945677?pwd=aMBNHYCSujHC1MW6z1V1CjbMfKwE27.1

*Chair*: 

*Minutes*: 

