# Agenda & Minutues for ADT CG Meeting on 3 November 2025, 17:00 AEDT

## Dial in details

**When**: Every second Monday from 17:00 to 18:00(Eastern Australia Time - Sydney)

**Location**: Zoom https://zoom.us/j/95320945677?pwd=aMBNHYCSujHC1MW6z1V1CjbMfKwE27.1

**Chair**: DP

**Minutes**: DH

## Attendees

1. Dima Postnikov
2. Derek Munneke
3. John Scullen
5. Dave Hyland
6. Linden Dawson
7. Jacob Oberman
8. Stefan Charsley
9. Kate Virgona

## Agenda

_**The meeting will be recorded for note taking purposes only.**_

1. **Antitrust Reminder**: 
    1. Note latest Refresh of the rules https://openid.net/policies/
    1. [OpenID Foundation, Groups, Activities, & Events, Note Well](https://openid.net/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/OIDF_Groups-Activities-Events-Note-Well_Final_2025-06-12.pdf)
1. **ADT CG Charter**
1. **Administration** 
    - **Participation Agreements**: Reminder to sign the participation agreement if you wish to have your comments and contributions recorded.
    - **Access to Slack**: Reminder to join the Slack channel for ongoing discussions and updates. You will need to sign the participation agreement to contribute IPR to the Slack channel.
    - **Access to the Mailing List**: See the signup link in the Readme.md file.
1. **Introductions** - new attendees. 
1. **General Discussion**
1. **Previous Actions** [see below](#Previous-Actions)
1. **Local Events**: [see below](#Local-Events)
1. **Subgroup Updates**: [see below](#Subgroups)
1. **Any Other Business** [see below](#Other-Items) 

## Previous Actions

_none_

## Local Events

Please insert chronologically ordered:


### Event Name, Location, Date

| Title    | Event Name |
|----------|------------| 
| Location | Someplace, STATE |
| Date     | 2025-01-01 |
| Link     | https://example.net |

_This is a template entry. Copy and paste for own events. Please insert chronologically._


### Biometrics Intitute Showcase Australia, Canberra & Online, 26 Nov

| Title    | Biometrics Intitute Showcase Australia |
|----------|------------| 
| Location | Hotel Realm, Canberra ACT & Online |
| Date     | 2025-11-26 |
| Link     | {%preview https://www.biometricsinstitute.org/event/showcase-australia-2025/ %} |


### IDPro Meetup, Canberra (venue TBC), 26 Nov (after Biometrics Showcase)

| Title    | Event Name |
|----------|------------| 
| Location | TBC, ACT |
| Date     | 2025-11-26 |
| Link     | https://www.meetup.com/dig-id-australian-digital-identity-meetup/ |

_potentially..._


### ADT Roundtable, Sydney (venue TBC), 3 Dec (TBC)

| Title    | Event Name |
|----------|------------| 
| Location | Sydney NSW |
| Date     | 2025-12-03 |
| Link     |  |

_potentially..._


### Australian Social Media Age Restrictions, National, 10 Dec (TBC) ðŸ¥³

> **Itâ€™s not a ban, itâ€™s a delay to having accounts.**
>
> This means there will be no penalties for under-16s who access an age-restricted social media platform, or for their parents or carers. However, age-restricted social media platforms may face penalties if they donâ€™t take reasonable steps to prevent under-16s from having accounts.

| Title    | Event Name |
|----------|------------| 
| Location | National   |
| Date     | 2025-12-10 |
| Link     | https://www.esafety.gov.au/about-us/industry-regulation/social-media-age-restrictions |


## General updates

### OIDF Polls

_none_

## Meeting Minutes

### Notes

 - Signature of the participation agreement is not required to join the ODIF Slack. This is following a decision by OIDF Board that information that contains IP should not be shared in Slack by default. Therefore, signature of the agreement is not a prerequisite.

### Minutes 

The meeting covered planning for upcoming events including a Christmas party and two industry showcases in November and December. The team discussed policy changes related to age verification for social media and reviewed progress on framework mapping exercises, with specific focus on Connect ID implementation and compliance status. The group also addressed ongoing documentation work, upcoming meetings, and various compliance matters while noting several team members' upcoming travel schedules.

- Bulding Agenda for ADT CG. To be finalised
- Suggested that we track of the Age Assurance "Ban"
- SC - suggested soft launch on the 10 - and then monitor for enforcement.
- Trust Frameworks - suggest to to have someone from ConnectID along to help answer/complete the workbook as we work through the AGDIS analysis.


### Actions



 Dima: Catch up with Mickey and Olaf about the Biometrics Institute Showcase meetup on November 26th
 Dima: Remind Rick to participate in the Trust Framework mapping exercise and attend meetings
Dima: Reach out to Rick Iverson to hand over Connect ID framework mapping work

Jacob: Follow up with Andy on bullet points regarding birth certificate as a use case
Jacob: Confirm Age Assurance group meeting for Wednesday at 1700  and get acceptance from relevant parties in Slack
Dave and Dima: Sort out December meeting schedule on Wednesday
1Dima: Communicate proposed meeting dates  to the group
Dima: Produce a report for the OpenID Foundation Board about community group activity by second week of December
Dima: Put "group review and look back" on the agenda for next meeting to discuss improvements

## ADT CG Subgroups

The ADT CG will govern and oversee the activites of the subgroups. 

Subgroups will report back to the CG on activities, progress and broad socialisation/review of any work they undertake. 


## Subgroups


### SIDI Trust Framework Analysis

**Meets**: Every second Monday @ 5 PM

**Slack**: https://oidf.slack.com/archives/C08HWV6BR7X

**Overview**: https://github.com/openid/cg-australian-digital-trust/blob/f5c4682e24c7f28b8663cdb697268003728d7f73/TrustFrameworkAnalysis/Readme.md

**Discussion**:

As per the meeting notes: https://hackmd.io/9rj0nzA8SfaIIWUvFqQ30g

**Actions**:

As per the meeting notes: https://hackmd.io/9rj0nzA8SfaIIWUvFqQ30g


### DADE AU 

**Meets**: 

Disbanded in favor of global [OpenID "DADE" group](https://github.com/openid/death-and-the-digital-estate)

**Slack**: 

[OpenID #cg-dade](https://oidf.slack.com/archives/C07KQP3DMR7)

**Overview**: Will align with the global group (next meeting 21 Aug 8am AEST)

**Actions**:

**Discussion** 

- Call for Contributions to [Digital Estate Planning Guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gjM82jsF242ag99-pDaQF00i5YK3Lpwr/edit)
- Comments close on October 24 for [discussion paper and planning guide](https://openid.net/open-for-comment-the-unfinished-digital-estate/)


### Age Assurance

**Meets**: TBC.

**Slack**: https://oidf.slack.com/archives/C08HZ95GGKC 

**Overview**: https://github.com/openid/cg-australian-digital-trust/blob/f5c4682e24c7f28b8663cdb697268003728d7f73/InnovationDay-1/Readme.md

**Discussion**: 

**Actions**:

No Actions - This will remain open as an Active Slack channel while the Innovation Days activites are underway. 


## Other Items


### Holiday meeting cadence

- Last meeting of year: 15 Dec (proposed)
- First meeting of next year: 12 Jan (proposed)

### FAPI 2.0 to support CDR

John Scullen at a workshop on 23 Oct where Ian Opperman and Naomi Gilbert from Treasury / Data Standards spoke. They said there will be a public consultation coming up, likely in November, about moving to FAPI 2.0 to support CDR


# Next meeting

 Date: 17 November 2025

## Dial in details

*Zoom*: https://zoom.us/j/95320945677?pwd=aMBNHYCSujHC1MW6z1V1CjbMfKwE27.1

*When*: Bi-weekly from 17:00 to 18:00 on Monday (Eastern Australia Time - Sydney)

*Location*: Zoom https://zoom.us/j/95320945677?pwd=aMBNHYCSujHC1MW6z1V1CjbMfKwE27.1

*Chair*: 

*Minutes*: 

