# Agenda and Minutes for the 2025 03 03 17:00 ADT CG Meeting (DRAFT)

## Dial in details

*Zoom*: https://zoom.us/j/95320945677?pwd=aMBNHYCSujHC1MW6z1V1CjbMfKwE27.1

*When*: Weekly from 17:00 to 18:00 on Monday (Eastern Australia Time - Sydney)

*Location*: Zoom: https://zoom.us/j/95320945677?pwd=aMBNHYCSujHC1MW6z1V1CjbMfKwE27.1

## Attendees



## Agenda

**AntiTrust Reminder**: https://openid.net/policies/
**Participation Agreements**: Reminder to sign the participation agreement if you wish to have your comments and contributions recorded.
**Access to Slack**: Reminder to join the Slack channel for ongoing discussions and updates. You will need to sign the participation agreement to join the Slack channel.
**Access to the Mailing List**: See the signup link in the Readme.md file.
**Previous Actions**:
1. Gareth to confirm ownership of the OIX paper and determine how to make it available to the Community Group. 
2. David to organize and schedule a Trust Framework subgroup meeting via Slack/mailing list. 
3. Victoria to collect and compile age verification problem statements shared by members via Slack 
4. Victoria to create a resources page in Github for age verification materials 
5. Victoria to compile names of interested participants for the age verification subgroup before next meeting 
6. Dima to include an events section in the next meeting agenda 
7. Gareth to share UK digital identity wallet and trust-building information on Slack 8. Rachel to share progress updates on the UNHCR work regarding age verification for children in care
**Local Events**: Details below.
**Subgroups Updates - Age Verification**:  Discuss inputs to the problem statement as a pathway to defining the specific objectives of this subgroup.



**Subgroup Updates - SIDI Trust Framework**:
    - Clarification on avialability to the underlying analysis.
    - OIX Documents Published to the subgroup git. 
    First call tbc. 
**AOB**:

## Local Events

Austalian Payments Plus: Beyond Tomorrow 25 March 2025 - ICC, Sydney https://www.auspayplus.com.au/beyondtomorrow

Biometrics Institute Aisa Pac Conference: 21 May-22 May - Dockside, Sydney
https://www.biometricsinstitute.org/event/asia-pacific-conference-2025/


## ADT CG Subgroups

The ADT CG will govern and oversee the activites of the subgroups. 
- Subgroups will report back to the CG on activities, progress and broad socialisation/review of any work they undertake. 


### Subgroups:
#### Age Verification: 

**Overview**: https://github.com/openid/cg-australian-digital-trust/blob/f5c4682e24c7f28b8663cdb697268003728d7f73/InnovationDay-1/Readme.md


#### SIDI Trust Framework Analysis :

**Overview**: https://github.com/openid/cg-australian-digital-trust/blob/f5c4682e24c7f28b8663cdb697268003728d7f73/TrustFrameworkAnalysis/Readme.md


# Minutes

## Attendance
Kate Virgona,
Jaspreet,
Garth Narinesingh,
Derek Munneke,
Miki Brotzler,
Andres Olave,
Jo Spencer,
Jan Vereecken,
Michal Kepkowski,
Natalie (joined late; only identified as “Natalie’s iPhone”),
Victoria Richardson,
Dave Hyland,
Dima Postnikov,
Brad Carr

- Anti-Trust Policy reminder cited, link to policy quoted
- Participation Agreements: Good sign-up rate continuing
**Previous Actions**
- **OIX Paper**: still in progress with Gareth on what’s possible, perhaps a piece to do on an Australia-specific mapping; an Australian mapping was underway in Q4; Gareth to liaise with Gail Hodges and Nick Mothershaw
- **Age Verification**: resources page set up; recent Apple news; work to do in firming up the problem statement
- Call out on all for expressions of interest for **Trust Frameworks**
- Call out for any other u**pcoming local events** (beyond AP+ and Biometrics conferences)
- Emergency/disaster
- Low-doc identity
- Identifying the un-identified
- Age Verification
- Federal government running 8 trials, c.60 companies participating
- Our objective: stepping back, asking what concerns? Privacy, interoperability, data breaches
- Gov is concerned re privacy; aware it’s been a massive issue for Europe, has driven sentiment to not do age estimation for minors
- **Victoria to share EU paper (ACTION)**
- Bad actors that might want information on which users are underage; does it inadvertently expose via those who can’t be validated?
- Onus on all relying parties; smaller ones won’t have resources to comply
- Do you need a layer between the identity provider and the relying party?
- Binding to a person; or does a tokenized solution get around this? Bound to a wallet?
- Victoria to look at disambiguation on age assurance / estimate (initially called out as an ACTION, but I think superseded in discussion); Jo emphasized terminology, added that Tony Allen would say they’re very clear on it, but agreed there’s valuable work to do on this
- Jo also picking up the point of keeping adults away from kids spaces too
- Gareth: positioning paper an excellent idea, but a prerogative of this group, for this group to decide
- **Victoria to share back a summary of the problem statement to this group for review (ACTION)**
