# Agenda and Minutes for the 2025 10 03 17:00 ADT CG Meeting (DRAFT)

## Dial in details

*Zoom*: https://zoom.us/j/95320945677?pwd=aMBNHYCSujHC1MW6z1V1CjbMfKwE27.1

*When*: Weekly from 17:00 to 18:00 on Monday (Eastern Australia Time - Sydney)

*Location*: Zoom: https://zoom.us/j/95320945677?pwd=aMBNHYCSujHC1MW6z1V1CjbMfKwE27.1

## Attendees

Victoria Richardson
David Hyland
Olaf Grewe
Mark Williams
Miki Brotzler
John Phillips
Brad Carr
Kate Virgona
Jo Spencer
David Moore
Gareth Narinesingh
Jon Dart
Jacom Oberman
Derek Munneke
Asli Demirel
Dima Postnikov
Jonathan Foyer
Andres Olave
Jan Vereecken
Jaspreet Kaur Randhawa
Linden Dawson


## Agenda

**AntiTrust Reminder**: https://openid.net/policies/
**Participation Agreements**: Reminder to sign the participation agreement if you wish to have your comments and contributions recorded.
**Access to Slack**: Reminder to join the Slack channel for ongoing discussions and updates. You will need to sign the participation agreement to join the Slack channel.
**Access to the Mailing List**: See the signup link in the Readme.md file.
**Previous Actions**: (see below)
**Subgroup Updates**: (see below)
**Local Events**: (details below)
**AOB**

## Open Actions

OIX Paper: Gareth and Dima to liaise with Gail Hodges and Nick Mothershaw. Ongoing
Age Verification: Victoria to Share EU Paper. Completed.
DH: Use Slack to get formal decision on the use of HackMD for Agenda Drafts. Completed.
DH: Get Age Verication name formally changed to Age Assurance via Slack. Completed 
ACTION ON ALL: Review and feedback comments. https://oidf.slack.com/archives/C086C5WF4KA/p1741449316800659 Completed
Stefan asked to be added to the list of people interested in participating in the Age Assurance Sub Group Completed.
## Local Events

Sydney Identity, Authentication & Access Management Summit 2025; 20 March 2025; Sydney; https://www.clutchevents.co/events/sydney-identity-authentication-access-management-summit-2025#agenda

Austalian Payments Plus: Beyond Tomorrow 25 March 2025 - ICC, Sydney https://www.auspayplus.com.au/beyondtomorrow

Biometrics Institute Aisa Pac Conference: 21 May-22 May - Dockside, Sydney
https://www.biometricsinstitute.org/event/asia-pacific-conference-2025/


## ADT CG Subgroups

The ADT CG will govern and oversee the activites of the subgroups. 
- Subgroups will report back to the CG on activities, progress and broad socialisation/review of any work they undertake. 


### Subgroups
### Age Assurance

**Meets**: Mondays follow the ADT CG core agenda.

**Overview**: https://github.com/openid/cg-australian-digital-trust/blob/f5c4682e24c7f28b8663cdb697268003728d7f73/InnovationDay-1/Readme.md

**Discussion**: 
1. Review/revise the sub group objective drafted by Victoria based on member input in previous meeting.
https://oidf.slack.com/archives/C086C5WF4KA/p1741449316800659
This objective will help drive and inform the focus of this sub group.
2. Discuss/agree proposed sub group name change - from Age Verification to Age Assertion - as a term that encompasses estimation and verification which the group acknowledges are different.

### SIDI Trust Framework Analysis

**Meets**: TBC

**Overview**: https://github.com/openid/cg-australian-digital-trust/blob/f5c4682e24c7f28b8663cdb697268003728d7f73/TrustFrameworkAnalysis/Readme.md

Currently the following people have expressed interest:
- Dave Hyland
- Olaf Grewe
- Andres Olave
- Dima Postnikov
    
**Discussion**:

1. Multiple columns for Australia: What are they?
2. Role for TrustID
3. Is AGDIS detailed enough yet to allow for policy references to be included with the mapping
     
**Next Steps**: 
    - Review material
    - Define champion use cases
    - Download from @Mark Verstege
    - Ovewview of Prior art on Trust Frameworks from Victoria?
    - Start mapping

# Minutes
- Welcome new members:
Jon Dart - CBA
David Moore - IBM IAM
Asli Demirel - ConnectID

- Antitrust Reminder: https://openid.net/policies/

- Local Events:
Mentioned as per agenda

- Previous Actions:
OIX Paper: Access to source material currently under consideration
Age Assurance: Shared on Slack
Use of HackMD Decision: Agreed by consensus

- Subgroup Updates:

- Age Assurance

Victoria Richardson: Typically (and aligned with the AATP initiative in Aus), age assurance is the overarching process, with Age Verification, Estimation and Inference as the methods of doing this. Assertion would imply a unilateral proposition. I'd suggest we align with the AATP terminology definition.

Discussion followed regarding differentiation relative to the AATP initiative.

Jo Spencer proposed that it would be great if someone defined a risk aligned "framework" of these assurance methods, and mapped different use cases to these methods and solutions. Ideally this would be the AATP, but Jo is  not convinced they will. Something to watchâ€¦

Dima proposed we narrow the focus of the group relative to AATP and the group agreed. 

Discussion followed about the relationship between this focus group and the innovation days and it was agreed that this grop would provide input to the innovation day on the same topic.


Jo Spencer: Parental consent ought to be a consideration in this context.
Gareth Narinesingh: Other working groups in OIDF working on this and work can be relied on.

Action: Victoria Richardson recut objective and put in Slack for confirmation
Action: All (following review of recut objective) Agree/assign tasks
Action: Gareth Narinesingh provide links to working groups regarding parental consent

- DADE
Linden Dawson: Our working group would be a sub-group of Death & The Digital Estate (DADE) with a focus on Australian rules, regs & cultural norms.

- Trust Frameworks
David Hyland: Update on progress so far

Action: Victoria to review TrustID documentation and share outcomes as appropriate

Jan Vereecken: How is this related to work under SIDI Hub? Dave Hyland: Complements the work with a focus on Australia

Dima Postnikov: OIX work to be migrated to SIDI Hub with group currently forming. Technical specifications being progressed through a different stream. Some overlap between GAIN under OIDF and the working group under OIX.

- AOB
Jon Dart: What about business identity? Some work done in the UK https://cfit.org.uk/cfit-publishes-digital-company-id-plan-to-slash-fraud-saving-uk-businesses-billions-annually. Consensus was not to constitute a sub-group but maintain visiblity. Jon to see if CFIT rep could brief this group.

John Philips: UN/CEFACT are about to start a program on a "Global Trust Registry" - a spin-off of the Recommendation 49 work on Transparency at Scale and the United Nations Transparency Protocol - Jo and I are contributors to the UNTP work and I aim slated to lead the GTR work. There are (of course) significant elements of identity for all the things that supply chains are concerned about (which is a lot of things).
Rec 49 is open for review until the 23rd: https://uncefact.unece.org/display/uncefactpublicreview/Public+Review+2%3A+Recommendation+No.+49%3A+Transparency+at+Scale
UNTP is here: https://uncefact.github.io/spec-untp/

Agreed to pick this up in another session.

Victoria: Closes the meeting
