# Agenda & Minutues for the 22 September 2025 17:00 ADT CG Meeting

## Dial in details

*Zoom*: https://zoom.us/j/95320945677?pwd=aMBNHYCSujHC1MW6z1V1CjbMfKwE27.1

*When*: Every second Monday from 17:00 to 18:00(Eastern Australia Time - Sydney)

*Location*: Zoom: https://zoom.us/j/95320945677?pwd=aMBNHYCSujHC1MW6z1V1CjbMfKwE27.1

*Chair*: Dima Postnikov (Victoria Richardson for first 20 mins)

*Minutes*: 

## Attendees

1. Victoria Richardson
1. Olaf Grewe
1. John Scullen
1. Dave Hyland
1. Victor Lu
1. Jacob Oberman
1. Dima Postnikov
1. Brad Carr
1. Stefan Charsley
1. Kate Virgona
1. Derek Munneke



## Agenda

1. **The meeting will be recorded for note taking purposes only.**
1. **Antitrust Reminder**: Note latest Refresh of the rules https://openid.net/policies/ .
    1. [OpenID Foundation, Groups, Activities, & Events, Note Well](https://openid.net/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/OIDF_Groups-Activities-Events-Note-Well_Final_2025-06-12.pdf)
1. **ADT CG Charter**
1. **Administration** 
    - **Participation Agreements**: Reminder to sign the participation agreement if you wish to have your comments and contributions recorded.
    - **Access to Slack**: Reminder to join the Slack channel for ongoing discussions and updates. You will need to sign the participation agreement to contribute IPR to the Slack channel.
    - **Access to the Mailing List**: See the signup link in the Readme.md file.
1. **Introductions** - new attendees. 
1. **General Discussion**
    1. **Previous Actions** (#Previous-Actions)
1. **Local Events**: [see below](#Local-Events)
1. **Previous Actions**: [see below](#Actions)
1. **Subgroup Updates**: [see below](#Subgroups)
1. **AOB**

Discussion forming a reponse on productivity commission 
https://www.pc.gov.au/inquiries/current/data-digital/interim

## Previous Actions
* All attendees to liaise with Olaf to provide feedback and edits for the Productivity Commission report submission by Monday, October 15th. **DONE**
* Olaf to finalize and submit the Productivity Commission report based on feedback received. **DONE**
*  Sushmita to share the presentations from the UNSW digital credentials workshop with the community. **OPEN**
*  Sushmita to share the research report on AGDIS with the community once completed. **OPEN**
* Victoria to provide an update on the Digital Identity New Zealand event in a couple of weeks. **DONE**


## Local Events

Please insert chronologically ordered:

### Event Name, Location, Date

| Title    | Event Name |
|----------|------------| 
| Location | Someplace, STATE |
| Date     | 2025-01-01 |
| Link     | https://example.net |

This is a template entry. Copy and paste for own events. Please insert chronologically.


### Biometrics Intitute Showcase Australia, Canberra & Online, 26 Nov


| Title    | Biometrics Intitute Showcase Australia |
|----------|------------| 
| Location | Hotel Realm, Canberra ACT & Online |
| Date     | 2025-11-26 |
| Link     | https://www.biometricsinstitute.org/event/showcase-australia-2025/ |

{%preview https://www.biometricsinstitute.org/event/showcase-australia-2025/ %}



## General updates

### OIDF Polls

Vote to Approve Proposed FAPI 2.0 Message Signing Final Specification
https://openid.net/foundation/members/polls

## Meeting Minutes

### Notes

 - Signature of the participation agreement is not required to join the ODIF Slack. This is following a decision by OIDF Board that information that contains IP should not be shared in Slack by default. Therefore, signature of the agreement is not a prerequisite.

### Productivity Commission Submission
 - Additional time required to get OIDF sign off. Needs a week prior to submission.
 - Olaf Grewe submitted and PC noted receipt and confrimed they would publish if it meets their criteria.
 - Blog post is also required.

### Identity week discussion
 - General discussion on the event.
 - Interesting to note participationg from retailers and casino operators.

### ID Match
 - General discussion on the event.
 - Good representation from government departments.
 - Foreshadowed changes to AML/CTF in terms of data collection and retention.
 - Discussion of FATF Tranche 2 and changes to Australian regulation from March 2026. 

### University identity event (run by AAF)
 - Discussed changing trends in identity and implications for universities.

### Age Assurance event
 - Presentation by Tony Allen and Iain Corby on the age assurance technology trials.
 - Highlighted the difference between age assurance and identity assurance.
 - Notably, age assurance requirements are being introduced in the US and this will help bring pressure on large socal media companies alongside Australian drivers.
- Discussion about standards and ISO 27566  - which is "pretty light":
    - unclear about how this will support interoperability
    - very little about onboarding
    - nothing on accreditation

- Discussion about commercial incentives. Noted that Iain Corby has a commercial network for age assurance operating in Europe and that over time it may cover additional attributes.

## Actions

1. Invite Ralph Bragg along to the next group to share insights on data sharing ecosystems. 10X time chepaer than it was previously. Dave Hyland to invite. Also see [#cg-ecosystem-support](https://oidf.slack.com/archives/C08621LKF5X)
2. Kate to check with Brad regarding plan for post Age Assurance report and LinkedIn post.
3. Olaf to ask Linden whether she can present insights from Identity Week in Washington.
4. All review the Dpt of Finance consultation on AGDIS rules and advise whether there is benefit in making a submission. 
https://www.digitalidsystem.gov.au/have-your-say/2025-digital-id-rules-and-accreditation-rules-consultation
5. Jacob to share a draft problem statement with the age assurance slack channel. https://oidf.slack.com/archives/C08HZ95GGKC
(Victoria share original draft with Jacob)


## ADT CG Subgroups

The ADT CG will govern and oversee the activites of the subgroups. 

Subgroups will report back to the CG on activities, progress and broad socialisation/review of any work they undertake. 


## Subgroups


### SIDI Trust Framework Analysis

**Meets**: Every second Monday @ 5 PM

**Slack**: https://oidf.slack.com/archives/C08HWV6BR7X

**Overview**: https://github.com/openid/cg-australian-digital-trust/blob/f5c4682e24c7f28b8663cdb697268003728d7f73/TrustFrameworkAnalysis/Readme.md

**Discussion**:

As per the meeting notes: https://hackmd.io/9rj0nzA8SfaIIWUvFqQ30g

**Actions**:

As per the meeting notes: https://hackmd.io/9rj0nzA8SfaIIWUvFqQ30g


### DADE AU 

**Meets**: 

Disbanded in favor of global [OpenID "DADE" group](https://github.com/openid/death-and-the-digital-estate)

**Slack**: 

[OpenID #cg-dade](https://oidf.slack.com/archives/C07KQP3DMR7)

**Overview**: Will align with the global group (next meeting 21 Aug 8am AEST)

**Actions**:

**Discussion** 

- Call for Contributions to [Digital Estate Planning Guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gjM82jsF242ag99-pDaQF00i5YK3Lpwr/edit)


### Age Assurance

**Meets**: TBC.

**Slack**: https://oidf.slack.com/archives/C08HZ95GGKC 

**Overview**: https://github.com/openid/cg-australian-digital-trust/blob/f5c4682e24c7f28b8663cdb697268003728d7f73/InnovationDay-1/Readme.md

**Discussion**: 

**Actions**:

No Actions - This will remain open as an Active Slack channel while the Innovation Days activites are underway. 


## Other Items


# Next meeting

 Date: 6 October 2025

## Dial in details

*Zoom*: https://zoom.us/j/95320945677?pwd=aMBNHYCSujHC1MW6z1V1CjbMfKwE27.1

*When*: Bi-weekly from 17:00 to 18:00 on Monday (Eastern Australia Time - Sydney)

*Location*: Zoom: https://zoom.us/j/95320945677?pwd=aMBNHYCSujHC1MW6z1V1CjbMfKwE27.1

*Chair*: 

*Minutes*: 

