# Agenda for the 16 June 2025 17:00 ADT CG Meeting

## Dial in details

*Zoom*: https://zoom.us/j/95320945677?pwd=aMBNHYCSujHC1MW6z1V1CjbMfKwE27.1

*When*: Every second Monday from 17:00 to 18:00(Eastern Australia Time - Sydney)

*Location*: Zoom: https://zoom.us/j/95320945677?pwd=aMBNHYCSujHC1MW6z1V1CjbMfKwE27.1

*Chair*: OG

*Minutes*: DH

## Attendees

- Miki Brotzler
- Olaf Grewe
- Dave Hyland
- David Moore
- Dima Postnikov
- Jan Vereecken
- Brad Carr
- Jacom Oberman
- Jo Spencer
- Andres Olave
- Gareth Narinesingh
- Kate Virgona

## Agenda

1. **Antitrust Reminder**: https://openid.net/policies/
2. **ADT CG Charter**
3. **Administration** 
- **Participation Agreements**: Reminder to sign the participation agreement if you wish to have your comments and contributions recorded.
- **Access to Slack**: Reminder to join the Slack channel for ongoing discussions and updates. You will need to sign the participation agreement to join the Slack channel.
- **Access to the Mailing List**: See the signup link in the Readme.md file.
4. **Introductions** - new attendees.
5. **General Discussion**
    - Identiverse downloads
7. **Local Events**: (details below)
8. **Previous Actions**: (see below)
9. **Subgroup Updates**: (see below)
10. **AOB**


## Local Events


**Save the date: IDPro September - Gold Coast 9 September**

**NEW NEW NEW**

**CDR & Digital ID Standards: Industry Forum**
Wednesday, June 11, 2025, 11am â€“ 1pm
https://dsb.trumba.com/CDR-Digital-ID-Standards-Industry-Forum/E183210355

**Verifiable Credentials Sydney, an IBM TechXchange Workshop** | 5 June 2025 | Auckland
https://www.ibm.com/events/reg/flow/ibm/B404ZKMB/landing/page/landing

**Innovation Day "Identity through life"** 

DATE TO BE CONFIRMED 

Focus on age assurance, estate planning, develgation and death events.


## General updates

### Discussion

* **Reminder of call for all ideas and suggestions for our next Innovation Day; event date now TBC, as we seek to de-conflict from the AFR Government Services Summit on 29/7/25**


* Recommended Reading from Jan:
https://www.linkedin.com/posts/janvereecken_weve-spent-over-a-decade-building-the-most-activity-7335198579206098944-mKi7?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_ios&rcm=ACoAAAWUV8kBDjsL2QBazN3ZxcxUELR78XgaJl4

### Notes

The meeting covered various topics including technical issues, antitrust policies, recent industry events, and updates on working groups. Discussions centered around digital identity standards, challenges in aligning legacy systems with evolving approaches, and planning for upcoming events such as Innovation Day. The group also addressed concerns about rapid standards development and shared insights from conferences and workshops related to digital credentials and identity frameworks.

The meeting began with technical difficulties in audio setup, which were eventually resolved. Olaf acknowledged his previous attempt at a humorous meeting format and assured the attendees that this session would be more serious. Dima mentioned that Kate would be late due to a school-related commitment. Olaf introduced David Hyland for providing online minutes and encouraged attendees to report any errors to him.

The meeting began with Olaf emphasizing the importance of adhering to antitrust policies and competition laws, reminding attendees of their responsibilities. The group then discussed the Identiverse event, where David shared his positive experience, highlighting engaging topics around authorization and agentic discussions, while noting that the ecosystem's future structure is still being determined. Dima was expected to elaborate further, but the transcript ended before he could contribute additional details.

Dima discussed the focus on identity strategy and workforce identity at the conference, noting the increased attention on machine and agentic AI identities. He observed that authorization is becoming more normalized, with emerging standards in the OpenID Foundation. Dima highlighted the growing interest in machine identity solutions among vendors and suggested that proper delegation protocols need further exploration to address potential large-scale vulnerabilities. He also mentioned the large crowd at the event, with many attendees expressing dissatisfaction with the venue.

The group discussed the concept of identity fabric, which was well-received at a recent conference, particularly in the context of enterprise workforce security and broader digital trust ecosystems. Olaf highlighted its importance for cross-functional interactions between identity infrastructure elements, while David Hyland mentioned that the related guidance is freely available online. The team also confirmed that the conference will remain at Mandalay Bay for the next few years, with Dima noting that it's harder to move due to the venue's size and the involvement of different organizers.

The team discussed recent industry events, including a conference where Google presented on digital credentials and API topics, while Apple was notably absent despite recent announcements. Dima reported positively on the CDI Digital Identity Standards Industry Forum, where Ian presented as the new chair, emphasizing that the standards body is just beginning its journey without predefined answers for interoperability. The team agreed to focus on local events and will share interesting presentations that become publicly available.

Jo and Dima discussed the challenges of aligning CDR, a legacy standard designed over 8 years ago, with evolving digital identity standards. Jo highlighted that CDR's limited adoption and questionable commercial models make it difficult to integrate with new approaches, suggesting a need for a distinct framework to allow for separate evolution. Dima noted the historical context of different governing bodies for digital identity and CDR, explaining the rationale for rationalizing them under a single entity, the DSB, without determining their connection.

The group discussed the success of Ian Offerman's handling of diverse interests in a recent meeting, noting the challenge of balancing various voices in consultations. David Moore shared insights from an IBM-led tech workshop in Auckland on digital credentials, highlighting the difficulty of translating physical processes into digital contexts and the need for a robust trust framework. The team reviewed plans for the next Innovation Day, with Brad announcing a revised date of August 15th to avoid conflicts with the Government Summit, and mentioned plans for a mix of hands-on activities and high-profile speakers.

Jan shared his LinkedIn article discussing how standards development often follows organic growth rather than starting with formal standardization, particularly in the case of verifiable credentials. Olaf agreed and noted that standards development is influenced by external factors, while also observing that some standards may take time to gain adoption, citing the example of Skim which took years to become relevant for identity fabrics.

The group discussed concerns about the rapid development of standards, particularly in response to EU legislation deadlines. David Moore expressed worry that the standards might be moving too quickly to be properly considered, while Jan and Dima acknowledged the pressure from both EU requirements and multiple simultaneous MDL deployments. Dima noted that while the standards are being finalized, there is already discussion about future versions, suggesting that some rushed decisions may be necessary.

The meeting discussed updates on several working groups. Olaf mentioned that the Age Assurance subgroup's focus is on Innovation Day, which is currently on hold. David Hyland clarified that the subgroup is separate from Innovation Day activities and is not currently meeting regularly. The Trust Framework Analysis working group has been active since the last meeting, with an outstanding action to set up time with Nick Mothershaw. Gareth provided an update on the global DATE working group, noting that they are working on a white paper for International Identity Week in November and have appointed a technical author.

The meeting covered updates on upcoming events, including the Australian meeting scheduled for Friday at 9 AM and the Age Assurance initiative report publication on the same day. David Hyland mentioned a presentation on digital estates, which Dima clarified was a panel discussion without specific content. Olaf confirmed the next broader ADT group meeting in two weeks and the Frameworks group meeting next week, while noting that the meeting date had been incorrectly set.

### Actions

1. Brad, Kate, and Mickey to finalize and confirm the date (August 15th) for the Innovation Day event.
2. Brad, Kate, and Mickey to share the list of potential speakers and participants for the Innovation Day with the group for additional suggestions.
3. David Hyland to set up a meeting with Nick Mothershaw for the Trust Framework Analysis working group.


## ADT CG Subgroups

The ADT CG will govern and oversee the activites of the subgroups. 

Subgroups will report back to the CG on activities, progress and broad socialisation/review of any work they undertake. 


## Subgroups
### Age Assurance

**Meets**: TBC.

**Slack**: https://oidf.slack.com/archives/C08HZ95GGKC 

**Overview**: https://github.com/openid/cg-australian-digital-trust/blob/f5c4682e24c7f28b8663cdb697268003728d7f73/InnovationDay-1/Readme.md

**Discussion**: 


**Actions**:

No Actions - This will remain open as an Active Slack channel while the Innovation Days activites are underway. 


### SIDI Trust Framework Analysis

**Meets**: Every second Monday @ 5 PM

**Slack**: https://oidf.slack.com/archives/C08HWV6BR7X

**Overview**: https://github.com/openid/cg-australian-digital-trust/blob/f5c4682e24c7f28b8663cdb697268003728d7f73/TrustFrameworkAnalysis/Readme.md

**Discussion**:

**Actions**:


### DADE AU 

**Meets**: Informally fortnightly

**Slack**: not required.

**Overview**: Will align with the global group

**Actions**:

**Discussion** 



### Other Items


# Next meeting

 Date: 30 June 2025

## Dial in details

*Zoom*: https://zoom.us/j/95320945677?pwd=aMBNHYCSujHC1MW6z1V1CjbMfKwE27.1

*When*: Bi-weekly from 17:00 to 18:00 on Monday (Eastern Australia Time - Sydney)

*Location*: Zoom: https://zoom.us/j/95320945677?pwd=aMBNHYCSujHC1MW6z1V1CjbMfKwE27.1

*Chair*: 

*Minutes*: 

