# Meeting 10 November 2025 - Trust Framework Analysis

Dial in details
Zoom: https://zoom.us/j/97745061561?pwd=XEehVH2EmHpCCJlhwMrbVXAX8D4kGB.1

When: Fortnightly from 17:00 to 18:00 on Monday (Eastern Australia Time - Sydney)

# Sub group documents

- Comparison sheet: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1HnQhLvY_NUYd477Up-h2EfH0oKPsFluJUmlERUoUdQYE/edit?gid=506016150#gid=506016150

- Use cases https://docs.google.com/document/d/1OvC2wtfuB5OSv-1NzLZjSVVdSxrOIIdY/edit#heading=h.ji73eahlb6mo

# Agenda

**Antitrust Reminder**: Note the rules https://openid.net/policies/
[OpenID Foundation, Groups, Activities, & Events, Note Well](https://openid.net/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/OIDF_Groups-Activities-Events-Note-Well_Final_2025-06-12.pdf)

**Subgroup Purpose**
 
 As digital identity ecosystems evolve globally, ensuring interoperability between Australia’s Digital ID frameworks and international schemes is crucial for seamless cross-border identity verification and trust. This subgroup will build upon the existing mapping activity documented in the “Survey on Trust Framework Policy Characteristics” and insights from the “Digital ID DNA – Interoperability Across Trust Frameworks” report.

There has been some early work completed to compare Australia’s Digital ID framework against key global trust frameworks, including eIDAS2 (EU), NIST 800-63 (US), UK DIATF, Canada DIACC, Singpass (Singapore), and BankID (Sweden) - this working group will pick this up and drive through to completion and presentation with the SIDI Hub.

To deepen practical insights, the subgroup will focus on mapping Australia’s framework to Japan’s digital identity standards as a specific use case. This will help identify key interoperability challenges, technical alignment opportunities, and policy considerations, paving the way for future bilateral and multilateral recognition of digital identities. The outcome will be a refined comparative analysis and recommendations report, guiding Australia’s approach to global digital identity interoperability.



 **Administration** 
    - **Participation Agreements**: Reminder to sign the participation agreement if you wish to have your comments and contributions recorded.
    - **Access to Slack**: Reminder to join the Slack channel for ongoing discussions and updates. You will need to sign the participation agreement to contribute IPR to the Slack channel.
    - **Access to the Mailing List**: See the signup link in the Readme.md file.

**Introductions** - new attendees. 

**Consultations**



## Previous Actions.



# Attendees
Stefan Charsley
Jo Spencer
Olaf Grewe
Linden Dawson
Derek Munneke
Dave Hyland
Victoria Richardson
Eric Jiang
David Moore

# Minutes 


The meeting began with technical difficulties and attendance challenges, followed by a review of the agenda and discussion of previous meeting minutes. The team addressed concerns about misinformation regarding digital identity solutions and discussed account closure rules in ACTIS, including account management processes and deduplication procedures. The group also covered reporting obligations, complaint handling procedures, and a board report that included forward planning and potential overlap between DSAC and ADTCG.


# New actions

1. Chairs to discuss submissions to open consultations.
2. 
1. Victoria: Ask Gail what she thinks about OIDF putting out a statement on age assurance principles
2. Victoria: Draft a statement/blog post by Tuesday evening about age assurance aligned with OIDF principles
3. Dave and Victoria : Pick up the age assurance response topic on Wednesday to figure out how to respond given the urgency and timing
5. Olaf and team: Take away the question about Connect ID's approach to account closure/freezing and what happens when bank accounts are frozen vs identity services
6. Dave: Speak to Dima to get answers on Connect ID reporting obligations and other questions that came up
7. Dave: Put questions for Dima on the agenda and summarize questions from the last month to prioritize walking through with them
8. Dave: Do a summary of the comparison work to date and create a playback, and find a way to stitch it into a narrative for a bigger comparison
9. Olaf: Reach out to Jan to see if he can contribute his view on the DMP use case
10. Olaf: Ask Jacob if he can provide a summary for the community group meeting
11. Olaf and Victoria: Update the Age Assurance meeting link to be a Zoom link instead of Teams

# Next Meeting

Monday 24 November 2025
