# Meeting 18 August 2025 - Trust Framework Analysis

Dial in details
Zoom: https://zoom.us/j/97745061561?pwd=XEehVH2EmHpCCJlhwMrbVXAX8D4kGB.1

When: Fortnightly from 17:00 to 18:00 on Monday (Eastern Australia Time - Sydney)

# Sub group documents

- Comparison sheet: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1HnQhLvY_NUYd477Up-h2EfH0oKPsFluUmlERUoUdQYE/edit?gid=506016150#gid=506016150

- Use cases https://docs.google.com/document/d/1OvC2wtfuB5OSv-1NzLZjSVVdSxrOIIdY/edit#heading=h.ji73eahlb6mo

# Agenda

1. Previous Actions
2. Updates 


# Attendees
- Victoria Richardson
- Gareth Narensingh
- Dima Postnikov
- Linden Dawson
- Jacob Oberman
- Jan Vereecken
- Kate Virgona
- Stefan Charsley
- Andres Olave
- Jo Spencer
- Brad Carr

# Minutes 

## Purpose alignment

GN: What is the objective of the mapping?
DP: Australian content was missing in the original OIX exercise and current SIDI-hub mapping.
VR: Value in understanding the differences between different frameworks. Also for other industries.
GN: Definitely there is value now that we differentiated from OIX and SIDI-hub
VR: And NZ as well.

## Other topics

VR: Walked through the assigned people for differen columns. VR to work with NR. Please stub when it doesn't apply.

GN: We need high level definitions document. LD to provide defenitions as requested by GN.

AO: Would it be beneficial for us add trust framework ecosystem as well (employment and education)

VR: Productivity commission report discussion https://www.pc.gov.au/inquiries/current/data-digital/interim BR/JS/VR/DP Let's review the report and focus on the key messages first.

# Previous Actions

1. Dima to report back on the results of the AI analysis of trust frameworks
2. All participants to review and transfer content from previous spreadsheet to new spreadsheet
3. Gareth to speak with Nick about Select ID participation agreement requirements
4. Dave to capture and share minutes from previous meeting with Nick Mothershaw - DONE
5. Dave to obtain and analyze pictures of different frameworks for analysis
6. Victoria to review and confirm completeness of spreadsheet characteristic value definitions
7. Dave to investigate Excel to Google Docs compatibility issues with pre-populated values - DONE (in meeting)
8. Dima to look into updating spreadsheet definitions and terminology for scheme types
9. Victoria to follow up with Department of Finance regarding policy hypotheses for verifiable credentials at end of August


# New actions
1. First pass for the answers by the next meeting.
2. Dima to follow up Austroads.
3. LD to provide defenitions as requested by GN.

# Next Meeting

Monday 1 September 2025
